Zoetis:
Item 1. Business.\nOverview\nZoetis Inc. is a global leader in the animal health industry, focused on the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of medicines, vaccines, diagnostic products, biodevices, genetic tests and precision livestock farming technology. We have a diversified business, commercializing products across eight core species: dogs, cats and horses (collectively, companion animals) and cattle, swine, poultry, fish and sheep (collectively, livestock); and within seven major product categories: vaccines, anti-infectives, parasiticides, dermatology, other pharmaceutical products, medicated feed additives and animal health diagnostics. For more than 65 years, we have been committed to advancing the health of animals and bringing solutions to our customers who raise and care for them.\nWe were incorporated in Delaware in July 2012 and prior to that the company was a business unit of Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer). The address of our principal executive offices is 10 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to \u201cZoetis,\u201d \u201cthe company,\u201d \u201cwe,\u201d \u201cus\u201d or \u201cour\u201d in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 (2020 Annual Report) refer to Zoetis Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. In addition, unless the context requires otherwise, references to \u201cPfizer\u201d in this 2020 Annual Report refer to Pfizer Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries.\nOperating Segments\nThe animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostics market is characterized by meaningful differences in customer needs across different regions. This is due to a variety of factors, including:\n\u2022economic differences, such as standards of living in developed markets as compared to emerging markets;\n\u2022cultural differences, such as dietary preferences for different animal proteins, pet ownership preferences and pet care standards;\n\u2022epidemiological differences, such as the prevalence of certain bacterial and viral strains and disease dynamics;\n\u2022treatment differences, such as utilization of different types of medicines and vaccines, as well as the pace of adoption of new technologies;\n\u2022environmental differences, such as seasonality, climate and the availability of arable land and fresh water; and\n\u2022regulatory differences, such as standards for product approval and manufacturing.\nAs a result of these differences, among other things, we organize and operate our business in two segments:\n\u2022United States (U.S.) with revenue of $3,557 million, or 53% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020; and\n\u2022International with revenue of $3,035 million, or 46% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020.\nWithin each of these operating segments, we offer a diversified product portfolio for both companion animal and livestock customers so that we can capitalize on local trends and customer needs.\nIn addition, our Client Supply Services (CSS) organization which provides contract manufacturing services to third parties, and our human health products, together represented approximately 1% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020.\n1 |\nOur 2020 revenue for the U.S. and key international markets, together with the percentage of revenue attributable to companion animal and livestock products in those markets, is as follows:\n(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) Revenue Companion Animal Livestock\nUnited States $3,557 67% 33%\nAustralia $207 46% 54%\nBrazil $258 30% 70%\nCanada $210 50% 50%\nChile $100 14% 86%\nChina $266 50% 50%\nFrance $118 48% 52%\nGermany $159 58% 42%\nItaly $90 56% 44%\nJapan $177 65% 35%\nMexico $116 23% 77%\nSpain $112 35% 65%\nUnited Kingdom $178 63% 37%\nOther Developed $388 41% 59%\nOther Emerging $656 28% 72%\nFor additional information regarding our performance in each of these operating segments and the impact of foreign exchange rates, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:\nNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 4. Revenue and Note 19. Segment Information. Our 2020 reported revenue for each segment, by species, is as follows:\n2 |\nProducts\nOver the course of our history, we have focused on developing a diverse portfolio of animal health products that deliver solutions across the continuum of care. We refer to all different brands of a particular product, or its dosage forms for all species, as a product line. We have approximately 300 comprehensive product lines, including products for both companion animals and livestock within each of our major product categories.\nOur companion animal products help extend and improve the quality of life for pets; increase convenience and compliance for pet owners; and help veterinarians improve the quality of their care and the efficiency of their businesses. Growth in the companion animal medicines, vaccines and diagnostics sector is driven by economic development, related increases in disposable income and increases in pet ownership and spending on pet care. Companion animals are also living longer, deepening the human-animal bond, receiving increased medical treatment and benefiting from advances in animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostics. Companion animal products represented approximately 55% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020.\nOur livestock products primarily help prevent or treat diseases and conditions to allow veterinarians and producers to care for their animals and to enable the cost-effective production of safe, high-quality animal protein. Human population growth and increasing standards of living are important long-term growth drivers for our livestock products in three major ways. First, population growth and increasing standards of living drive demand for improved nutrition, particularly through increased consumption of animal protein. Second, population growth leads to greater natural resource constraints driving a need for enhanced productivity. Finally, as standards of living improve and the global food chain faces increased scrutiny, there is more focus on food quality, safety and reliability of supply. Livestock products represented approximately 44% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020.\nIn addition, our CSS organization, which provides contract manufacturing services to third parties, and our human health products, together represented approximately 1% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020.\nOur major product categories are:\n\u2022vaccines: biological preparations that help prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response;\n\u2022anti-infectives: products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa;\n\u2022parasiticides: products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites such as fleas, ticks and worms;\n\u2022dermatology products: products that relieve itch associated with allergic conditions and atopic dermatitis;\n\u2022other pharmaceutical products: pain and sedation, antiemetic, reproductive, and oncology products;\n\u2022medicated feed additives: products added to animal feed that provide medicines to livestock; and\n\u2022animal health diagnostics: portable blood and urine analysis systems and point-of-care diagnostic products, including instruments and reagents, rapid immunoassay tests, reference laboratory kits, blood glucose monitors and reference laboratory services.\nOur remaining revenue is derived from other non-pharmaceutical product categories, such as nutritionals and agribusiness, as well as products and services in biodevices, genetic tests and precision livestock farming.\nAs part of our growth strategy, we focus on the discovery and development of new chemical, biopharmaceutical and biological entities, as well as product lifecycle innovation, primarily through our research and development (R&D) group. Historically, a substantial portion of our products and revenue has been the result of product lifecycle innovation where we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. For example, the first product in our ceftiofur line was an anti-infective approved for treating bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in cattle that was administered via intramuscular injection. Through follow-on studies and reformulations, we have expanded the product line into additional cattle claims and administration routes, as well as other species and regions. The ceftiofur product line currently includes the brands Excede\u00ae, Excenel\u00ae, Naxcel\u00ae and Spectramast\u00ae.\nThe following are examples of our first-in-class and/or best-in-class products that we have launched in recent years and products that we believe may represent platforms for future product lifecycle innovation (listed alphabetically):\n\u2022Apoquel\u00ae, the first Janus kinase inhibitor for use in veterinary medicine, was approved for the control of pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and the control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age. Since January 2014, we launched Apoquel in key markets including the U.S., Europe, Japan, Brazil, Australia and China;\n\u2022Core EQ Innovator\u2122, the first and only vaccine for horses to contain all five core equine disease antigens - West Nile, Eastern and Western Equine encephalomyelitis, tetanus and rabies - in one combination, was approved in the U.S. in 2018 and in Canada in 2019;\n\u2022Cytopoint\u00ae, the first canine monoclonal antibody (mAb) to help reduce the clinical signs of atopic dermatitis (such as itching) in dogs of any age, was licensed in the U.S. in 2016 (and was later granted an expanded indication to treat allergic dermatitis in 2018). Since 2016, the product has been approved in major markets including Canada, the European Union, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil and Mexico. An injection given once every four to eight weeks, Cytopoint neutralizes interleukin-31, a protein that has been demonstrated to trigger itching in dogs;\n\u2022Fostera\u00ae PCV MH was introduced in November 2013 in the U.S. and approved in the European Union in 2015 and Australia in 2017. It was developed to help protect pigs from porcine circovirus-associated disease (PCVAD) and enzootic pneumonia caused by M. hyopneumoniae (M. hyo). The one-bottle formulation of Fostera PCV MH allows the convenience of a one-dose program or the flexibility of a two-dose program. The Fostera franchise also includes Fostera/Suvaxyn\u00ae PRRS, which was approved in the U.S. in 2015 and in Taiwan, Vietnam and European Union countries in 2017. This vaccine offers protection against both the respiratory and reproductive forms of disease caused by porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) virus. Fostera Gold PCV MH was approved in the U.S. and Canada in 2018, Brazil and Mexico in 2019 and Australia, Europe (under the name CircoMax Myco) and Japan in 2020. This is the only vaccine to contain two PCV2 genotypes and long-lasting M. hyo coverage;\n3 |\n\u2022Librela\u00ae (bedinvetmab), the first injectable mAb therapy for monthly alleviation of osteoarthritis (OA) pain in dogs, was approved in the European Union and Switzerland in 2020, and Canada and Brazil in early 2021;\n\u2022Poulvac\u00ae Procerta\u2122 HVT-ND, our first vector vaccine that helps protect against Marek\u2019s disease and Newcastle disease, highly contagious viral infections affecting poultry, was approved in the U.S. in 2019. In 2020, we expanded our line of recombinant vector vaccines with the launch of Poulvac Procerta HVT-IBD, which provides early protection against the contemporary infectious bursal disease (IBD) viruses confronting U.S borders;\n\u2022ProHeart\u00ae 12 (moxidectin), a once-yearly injection to prevent heartworm disease in dogs 12 months of age and older, was approved in the U.S. in 2019;\n\u2022Simparica\u00ae (sarolaner) Chewables, a monthly chewable tablet for dogs to control fleas and ticks, was approved in the European Union and New Zealand in 2015, the U.S., Canada, Australia, and Brazil (Simparic) in 2016, Japan and additional European, Latin American and Asia Pacific markets in 2017, and China in 2020. Building on this franchise, in 2017, Zoetis received European Commission approval for Stronghold\u00ae Plus (selamectin/sarolaner), a topical combination product that treats ticks, fleas, ear mites, lice and gastrointestinal worms and prevents heartworm disease in cats. In 2018, this product was approved in the U.S., Japan and Canada (Revolution\u00ae Plus);\n\u2022Simparica Trio\u00ae, a triple combination parasiticide for dogs, was approved in the European Union and Canada in 2019, the U.S. and Australia in 2020, and Mexico in early 2021. This product is a key internal lifecycle innovation that combines flea and tick treatment (sarolaner) with the prevention of heartworm disease and treatment of gastrointestinal parasites;\n\u2022SolensiaTM (frunevetmab), the first injectable mAb therapy for monthly alleviation of OA pain in cats, was approved in Switzerland in 2020; and\n\u2022Vanguard\u00ae/Versican\u00ae is a market leading vaccine line for dogs intended to help prevent a range of diseases. Since 2016, Zoetis has added new and innovative enhancements to its Vanguard line in the U.S. with Vanguard crLyme, Vanguard Rapid Resp Intranasal, Vanguard B Oral, and Vanguard CIV H3N2/H3N8. In 2019, the company received approval for Versican Plus Bb Oral, the first oral vaccine for dogs in Europe. It provides long-lasting protection against Bordetella bronchiseptica, a primary component of the canine infectious respiratory disease complex (CIRDC).\nWe pursue the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, with an operating philosophy of \u201cfirst to know and fast to market.\u201d Examples of the successful execution of this strategy include the first equine vaccine for West Nile virus in the U.S. and European Union; the first swine vaccine for pandemic H1N1 influenza virus in the U.S.; the first fully licensed vaccine to help reduce disease caused by the Georgia 08 variant of infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) in poultry; a conditionally licensed vaccine to help fight porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDv) in the U.S.; and the first conditionally licensed vaccine to help prevent the H3N2 type of canine influenza that emerged in the U.S. In 2019, Zoetis established a research facility with Texas A&M University to develop vaccines for transboundary and emerging diseases in animals, including Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD), a virus that can cause serious illness in cattle, pigs, and sheep. In 2020, the company opened a research lab at Colorado State University in a partnership to explore the livestock immune system and target new immunotherapies with a goal of paving the way for new alternatives to antibiotics in food-producing animals.\nAdditionally, the Pharmaq business of Zoetis is the global leader in vaccines and innovation for aquatic health products. Pharmaq added to its leading Alpha Ject\u00ae vaccine line with approval of Alpha Ject Micro 1 TiLa in Brazil and Colombia, and Alpha Ject Micro 1 Si in Honduras in 2019, as well as Alpha Ject Micro 4-2 in Chile in 2020. Pharmaq also launched Alpha Flux\u00ae in Chile in 2019, a parasiticide that helps salmon farmers control sea lice infestations, one of the major challenges in the aquatic health industry. In 2020, Pharmaq received approval in Norway for Alpha ERM Salar, an oil-based injectable vaccine that helps protect salmon from red mouth, a common bacterial infection. Pharmaq also established a new diagnostics lab in Norway, the country with the highest density of salmon fish farmers in the world, that will serve as a hub for research and testing. In 2020, Zoetis acquired Fish Vet Group to expand the geographic reach and enhance the diagnostics expertise and testing services of the Pharmaq business for fish farmers in major aquaculture markets.\nZoetis enhanced the portfolio of its diagnostic products with the acquisition in 2018 of Abaxis, Inc. (Abaxis), a leading provider of veterinary point-of-care diagnostic instruments. With this acquisition came the VetScan\u00ae portfolio of benchtop and handheld diagnostic instruments and consumables, which serves a large customer base of veterinary practices both in North America and international markets. In 2019, the company acquired Phoenix Central Laboratory for Veterinarians, Inc. (Phoenix Lab) and ZNLabs, LLC (ZNLabs) marking its entry into reference laboratory services and building on a strategy to develop a more comprehensive diagnostics offering with enhanced value for veterinarians. In 2020, the company acquired a third veterinary reference lab business, Ethos Diagnostic Science. The Zoetis diagnostic portfolio also includes the Witness\u00ae, Serelisa\u00ae and ProFlok\u00ae lines of immunodiagnostic kits, which provide disease detection capabilities for various species, including dogs, cats, cattle, pigs and poultry. In 2020, the company launched Vetscan Imagyst\u2122 in Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, the U.K. and the U.S. Imagyst uses a combination of image recognition technology, algorithms and cloud-based artificial intelligence to deliver rapid testing results to veterinary clinics. Its first indication is for testing fecal samples for parasites, with the potential for broader applications to different types of testing in the future.\nZoetis also entered the field of animal nutritionals with the acquisition of Platinum Performance in 2019. The acquisition brings us premium nutritional product formulas and a unique approach to the field of scientific wellness for horses, dogs and cats.\nIn 2020, our top two selling products, Apoquel and Simparica/ Simparica Trio, contributed approximately 10% and 6%, respectively, of our revenue. Combined with our next three top selling products, Revolution\u00ae / Revolution Plus / Stronghold, Draxxin\u00ae and the ceftiofur line, these five products contributed approximately 31% of our revenue. In 2020, our top ten product lines contributed 44% of our revenue.\n4 |\nOur product lines and products that represented approximately 1% or more of our revenue in 2020, which comprise 64% of our total revenue, are as follows (listed alphabetically by product category):\nCompanion animal products\nProduct line / product Description Primary species\nVaccines\nVanguard\u00ae L4 (4-way Lepto)\nCompatible with the Vanguard line and helps protect against leptospirosis caused by Leptospira canicola, L. grippotyphosa, L. icterohaemorrhagiae and L. pomona\nDogs\nVanguard\u00ae line\nAids in preventing canine distemper caused by canine distemper virus; infectious canine hepatitis caused by canine adenovirus type 1; respiratory disease caused by canine adenovirus type 2; canine parainfluenza caused by canine parainfluenza virus; canine parvoviral enteritis caused by canine parvovirus; Lyme disease and subclinical arthritis associated with Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme disease; and Rapid Resp - a group of three vaccines combating infections in dogs caused by Bordetella bronchiseptica, canine parainfluenza and canine adenovirus; canine influenza vaccines; and an oral vaccine for Bordatella bronchiseptica\nDogs\nAnti-infectives\nClavamox\u00ae / Synulox\u00ae\nA broad-spectrum antibiotic and the first potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and cats Cats, dogs\nConvenia\u00ae\nAnti-infective for the treatment of common bacterial skin infections that provides a course of treatment in a single injection Cats, dogs\nParasiticides\nProHeart\u00ae\nPrevents heartworm infestation; also for treatment of existing larval and adult hookworm infections Dogs\nRevolution\u00ae / Revolution\u00ae Plus / Stronghold\u00ae line\nAn antiparasitic for protection against fleas, heartworm disease and ear mites in cats and dogs; sarcoptic mites and American dog tick in dogs and roundworms and hookworms for cats Cats, dogs\nSimparica\u00ae/ Simparica Trio\u00ae\nA monthly chewable tablet for dogs to control fleas and ticks; Simparica Trio, also a monthly chewable tablet, is a triple combination parasiticide that delivers all-in-one protection from fleas and ticks, as well as heartworm disease, roundworms and hookworms Dogs\nOther Pharmaceutical Products\nCerenia\u00ae\nA medication that prevents and treats acute vomiting in dogs, treats acute vomiting in cats and prevents vomiting due to motion sickness in dogs Cats, dogs\nRimadyl\u00ae\nFor the relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain associated with soft tissue and orthopedic surgeries Dogs\nDermatology\nApoquel\u00ae\nA selective inhibitor of the Janus Kinase 1 enzyme that controls pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age Dogs\nCytopoint\u00ae\nAn injectable to help reduce the clinical signs such as itching of atopic dermatitis in dogs of any age Dogs\nAnimal Health Diagnostics\nVetScan\u00ae\nA portfolio of benchtop and handheld diagnostic instruments, rapid tests and associated consumables Cats, dogs\n5 |\nLivestock products\nProduct line / product Description Primary species\nVaccines\nImprovac / Improvest / Vivax Reduces boar taint, as an alternative to surgical castration and suppression of estrus in gilts Swine\nRispoval\u00ae / Bovishield\u00ae\nline\nAids in preventing three key viruses involved in cattle pneumonia-BRSV, PI 3 virus and BVD-viruses as well as other respiratory diseases, depending on formulation\nCattle\nSuvaxyn\u00ae / Fostera\u00ae\nAids in preventing or controlling diseases associated with major pig pathogens such as porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSv) and Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae (M. hyo), depending on formulations\nSwine\nAnti-infectives\nCeftiofur injectable line Broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic active against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including \u00df-lactamase-producing strains, with some formulations producing a single course of therapy in one injection Cattle, sheep, swine\nDraxxin\u00ae\nSingle-dose low-volume antibiotic for the treatment and prevention of bovine and swine respiratory disease, infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis and bovine foot rot Cattle, sheep, swine\nSpectramast\u00ae\nTreatment of subclinical or clinical mastitis in dry or lactating dairy cattle, delivered via intramammary infusion; same active ingredient as the ceftiofur line Cattle\nTerramycin\u00ae line\nAntibiotic for the treatment of susceptible infections Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine\nParasiticides\nDectomax\u00ae\nInjectable or pour-on endectocide, characterized by extended duration of activity, for the treatment and control of internal and external parasite infections Cattle, swine\nMedicated Feed Additives\nAureomycin\u00ae\nProvides livestock producers control, treatment and convenience against a wide range of respiratory, enteric and reproductive diseases Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine\nBMD\u00ae\nAids in preventing and controlling enteritis; and increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in poultry and swine Poultry, swine\nLasalocid line Controls coccidiosis in poultry (Avatec\u00ae) and cattle (Bovatec\u00ae) and for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in cattle\nPoultry, cattle\nLincomycin line Controls necrotic enteritis; treatment of dysentery (bloody scours), control of ileitis and treatment/reduction in severity of mycoplasmal pneumonia Swine, poultry\nZoamix\u00ae\nA non-ionophore anticoccidial for the prevention and control of coccidiosis in poultry Poultry\nOther Non-Pharmaceutical Products\nEmbrex\u00ae devices\nDevices for enhancing hatchery operations' efficiency through in ovo detection and vaccination\nPoultry\nInternational Operations\nWe directly market our products in approximately 45 countries across North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and South America, and our products are sold in more than 100 countries. Operations outside the U.S. accounted for 46% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. Through our efforts to establish an early and direct presence in many emerging markets, such as Brazil, Chile, China and Mexico, emerging markets contributed 21% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020.\nOur international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. See Risk Factors- Risks related to operating in foreign jurisdictions.\nSales and Marketing\nOur sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. In markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products.\nOur sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. Our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. These direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. Additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. As a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to those in human health. As of December 31, 2020, our sales organization consisted of approximately 3,600 employees.\n6 |\nOur companion animal and livestock products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. On a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through retail and e-commerce outlets. We also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners.\nCustomers\nWe primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. We sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that then typically sell the products to livestock producers. Our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 14% and 6%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020, and no other customer represented more than 6% of our revenue for the same period.\nResearch and Development\nOur research and development (R&D) operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine R&D organization, external alliances and other operations focused on the development, registration and regulatory maintenance of our products. In addition, we have R&D operations focused on diagnostics, devices, data, digital and other technological innovation. We incurred R&D expense of $463 million in 2020, $457 million in 2019 and $432 million in 2018.\nOur R&D efforts are comprised of more than 300 programs and reflect our commitment to develop better solutions. We create new insights for predicting, preventing, detecting and treating health conditions that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation. Leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, biodevice and diagnostic products to help our customers face their toughest challenges. While the development of new chemical, biopharmaceutical and biological entities through new product R&D plays a critical role in our growth strategies, a significant share of our R&D investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle innovation. A commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations, routes of administration and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. We also create opportunities by integrating product offerings to optimize solutions based on the totality of customer need.\nWe prioritize our R&D spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our R&D operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. We make our strategic investments in R&D based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. A centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend. This view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. The allocation of our R&D investment between product lifecycle innovation and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing R&D and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable R&D process.\nWe regularly enter into agreements with external parties that enable us to collaborate on research programs or gain access to substrates and technologies (such as new devices). Some of our external partnerships involve funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. We are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental expertise for, as well as investment in, such external partnerships. Depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models.\nAs of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 1,250 employees in our global R&D operations. Our R&D headquarters is located in Kalamazoo, Michigan. We have R&D operations co-located with manufacturing sites in Weibern, Austria; Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium; Campinas, Brazil; Suzhou, China; Farum, Denmark; Olot, Spain; Union City, California; Kalamazoo, Michigan; Durham, North Carolina; and Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S. We co-locate R&D operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. In addition, we maintain R&D operations in Sydney, Australia; Zaventem, Belgium; S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil; Beijing, China; Navi Mumbai, India; Oslo, Norway; Hong Ngu, Vietnam; and Thanh Binh, Vietnam. Each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents, as appropriate.\nManufacturing and Supply Chain\nOur products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as CMOs. We have a global manufacturing network of 29 sites.\n7 |\nOur global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites:\nSite Location Site Location\nBuellton California, U.S. Melbourne Australia\nCampinas Brazil Olot Spain\nCatania Italy Overhalla Norway\nCharles City Iowa, U.S. Rathdrum Ireland\nChicago Heights Illinois, U.S. Salisbury Maryland, U.S.\nDurham North Carolina, U.S. San Diego California, U.S.\nEagle Grove Iowa, U.S. Suzhou China\nFarum Denmark Tallaght Ireland\nJilin China Tullamore Ireland\nKalamazoo Michigan, U.S. Union City California, U.S.\nKlofta Norway Weibern Austria\nLincoln Nebraska, U.S. Wellington New Zealand\nLondon Ontario, Canada White Hall Illinois, U.S.\nLouvain-la-Neuve Belgium Willow Island West Virginia, U.S.\nMedolla Italy\nWe own the majority of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in Buellton, California (U.S.), Durham, North Carolina (U.S.), Klofta (Norway), London (Canada), Medolla (Italy), Melbourne (Australia), San Diego, California (U.S.), Tullamore (Ireland), Union City, California (U.S.) and Weibern (Austria), which are leased sites.\nWe are currently in the process of building a second manufacturing site in Suzhou (China).\nOur global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of CMOs. As of December 31, 2020, this network was comprised of 144 CMOs, including those centrally managed as well as local CMOs.\nWe select CMOs based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. Our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the CMOs we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality.\nWe purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. We utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support.\nWe intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including Six Sigma and Lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. We have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and CMO sites.\nCompetition\nAlthough our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostics industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. Principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers.\nOur primary competitors include animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostic companies such as Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health Inc., the animal health division of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH; Merck Animal Health, the animal health division of Merck & Co., Inc.; Elanco Animal Health, which includes their recent acquisition of Bayer Animal Health, the animal health division of Bayer AG; and IDEXX Laboratories. There are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. In addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world.\nThe level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. For example, the level of generic competition is higher in Europe and certain emerging markets than in the U.S. Unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. The reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. For more information regarding the generic competition we have and expect to encounter as patents on certain of our key products expire, see Item 1. Business - Intellectual Property. In addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians.\nThe importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. As a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity.\n8 |\nIntellectual Property\nOur technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate.\nOur product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 6,100 granted patents and 1,450 pending patent applications, filed in more than 50 countries, with a focus on our major markets, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Japan and the U.S., as well as other countries with strong patent systems. Many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our in-house research and development, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were wholly or partially developed by third parties and are licensed to Zoetis.\nPatents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. Below is a summary of our recent and upcoming key patent expirations.\n\u2022Draxxin, containing the active ingredient tulathromycin, is covered by a formulation patent in the U.S. which expired in February 2021. Corresponding formulation patents in Europe, Canada, Australia and other key markets expired in late 2020, with the exception of the formulation patents in Brazil and Japan that both expire in 2025. The active ingredient tulathromycin is protected in Brazil until 2022 and in Japan until 2023. Generic tulathromycin products are now marketed in key markets including Europe, Canada, Mexico and Australia, as well as many smaller markets. Market entry of generic tulathromycin products in the U.S. is expected in 2021.\n\u2022Several patents covering Excede/Naxcel, part of the ceftiofur antibiotic product line, began expiring in the U.S. in 2015. The patent covering the commercial formulation of Excede in the U.S. extends to 2024, but expires in September 2021 in Europe, Canada and Australia. Corresponding patents in Japan and Brazil expire in 2026 and 2027, respectively. The commercial method of administration patent relevant to the product line expires in 2023 in the U.S., Europe and Australia. Generic versions of Excede have entered the market in Mexico and Russia. At this time, the market entry of a generic version of Excede in the U.S. is not anticipated before 2024.\n\u2022The compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticides Revolution, Revolution Plus and Stronghold, expired in 2014. Formulation patents covering these products expired in important markets in 2019. Generic versions of selamectin are now sold in markets including the U.S., Europe, Australia and Canada.\n\u2022The patent for the active ingredient of Convenia has expired; however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between November 2022 and October 2023.\n\u2022The patent for the active ingredient of Cerenia has expired; however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between 2025 and 2028. Generic versions of Cerenia have been registered and marketed in Canada and Europe. At this time, there is no indication of an impending market entry of a generic version of Cerenia in the U.S.\n\u2022The formulation patent covering ProHeart 12 expired in the U.S. in 2019, but expires in Australia, Canada and Japan in October 2021.\nZoetis typically enforces its patents vigorously as appropriate both within and outside the U.S., including by filing infringement claims against other parties.\nAdditionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement.\nFollowing our separation from Pfizer, Pfizer licenses to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. We license to Pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. In addition, Pfizer granted us a perpetual license to use certain of Pfizer's product name trademarks.\nWe seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. We currently maintain more than 8,200 trademark applications and registrations in our market countries, identifying products and services dedicated to the care of companion animals and livestock.\nRegulatory\nThe sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we market our products. To maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. Our regulatory function actively engages in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. In the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products.\nUnited States\nUnited States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the U.S. is the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM), housed within the FDA. All manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a Freedom of Information Summary. Post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the CVM's Surveillance and Compliance group. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. Additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source.\nUnited States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The regulatory body in the U.S. for veterinary vaccines is the USDA. The USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. All manufacturers of animal health\n9 |\nbiologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the Virus Serum Toxin Act. Post-approval monitoring of products is required. Reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements.\nEnvironmental Protection Agency (EPA). The main regulatory body in the U.S. for veterinary pesticides is the EPA. The EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. All manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause \u201cunreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment\u201d as stated in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. Within the U.S., pesticide products that are approved by the EPA must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. Post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the EPA and some state regulatory agencies.\nIn addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.\nWe are also subject to foreign trade controls administered by certain U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department, Customs and Border Protection within the Department of Homeland Security and OFAC. As a global animal health company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. This includes supplying medicines and medical products for use in Iran and shipment of products to Iran, and conducting related activities, in accordance with a general license issued by OFAC and in line with our corporate policies. As previously disclosed, we acquired Platinum Performance (Platinum) in August 2019. During the integration process, after the closing of the acquisition, we discovered that Platinum had initiated certain transactions involving sales of food, medicine or devices to individuals or entities who may have been resident in or had ties to Iran. These sales were not conducted pursuant to a general license from OFAC and potentially violated the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) administered by OFAC. We submitted an initial voluntary disclosure to OFAC in February 2020 while our internal investigation was ongoing. After concluding our internal investigation, in December 2020, we submitted a final voluntary disclosure to OFAC and the U.S. Department of Justice regarding these transactions.\nAs a result of our acquisition of Abaxis, our product portfolio includes human medical diagnostics, which are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, including the 1976 Medical Device Amendments and the Quality System Regulation, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, and by the Department of Health and Human Services Office for Civil Rights under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.\nOutside the United States\nEuropean Union (EU). The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is the centralized regulatory agency of the EU. The agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by healthcare companies seeking centralized approval for use in the EU. The agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use (CVMP) is responsible for scientific and technical review of the submissions for innovative pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and vaccines. After the CVMP issues a positive opinion on the approvability of a product, the EU commission reviews the opinion and, if they agree with the CVMP, they grant the product market authorization. Once granted by the European Commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all EU and European Economic Area-European Free Trade Association states. Products can also be registered in the EU via a decentralized route under the supervision of the Co-ordination Group for Mutual Recognition and Decentralized Procedures - Veterinary (CMDv). This co-ordination group is composed of one representative per member state from each national regulatory agency, including Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. The CMDv reviews submissions of pharmaceuticals and vaccines for authorization of a veterinary product in two or more member states in accordance with the mutual recognition or the decentralized procedure. A series of Regulations, Directives, Guidelines and EU Pharmacopeia Monographs provide the requirements for product approval in the EU. In general, these requirements are similar to those in the U.S., requiring demonstrated evidence of, safety, efficacy, and quality/consistency of manufacturing processes. We are also subject to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that requires us to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of data subjects to request correction or deletion of their personal data.\nBrazil. The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Production and Supply (MAPA) is the regulatory body in Brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. MAPA's regulatory activities are conducted through the Secretary of Agricultural Defense and its Livestock Products Inspection Department. In addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the Federal Agriculture Superintendence. These activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. MAPA is one of the most active regulatory agencies in Latin America, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as Codex Alimentarius, World Organization for Animal Health and Committee of Veterinary Medicines for the Americas. MAPA was also invited to be a Latin American representative at meetings of the International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products (VICH). Several normative instructions issued by MAPA have set regulatory trends in Latin America.\nAustralia. The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (APVMA) is an Australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the Australian marketplace. Previously each State and Territory government had its own system of registration. The APVMA assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. Applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the APVMA's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, Commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. If the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the APVMA will register the product. As well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the APVMA reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. The APVMA also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. The review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. In some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being canceled and the product taken off the market.\n10 |\nRest of world. Country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. With the exception of the EU, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the FDA, USDA, EU and other international animal health entities, including the World Organization for Animal Health and Codex Alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines.\nGlobal policy and guidance\nJoint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives. The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). They provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. We work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. This in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain.\nAdvertising and promotion review. Promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. These rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. We conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products.\nFood Safety Inspection Service/generally recognized as safe. The FDA is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including \u201cgenerally recognized as safe\u201d substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. However, although the FDA has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the Food Safety and Inspection Service, the public health agency in the USDA, still retains, under the tenets of the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine whether new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products.\nInternational Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products (VICH). VICH is a trilateral (EU-Japan-USA) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. The objectives of the VICH are as follows:\n\u2022Establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the VICH regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development.\n\u2022Provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements through the VICH Outreach Forum (VOF).\n\u2022Monitor and maintain existing VICH guidelines, taking particular note of the ICH work program and, where necessary, update these VICH guidelines.\n\u2022Ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of VICH guidelines.\n\u2022By means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the VICH regions.\nHuman Capital Management\nAs of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 11,300 employees worldwide, which included approximately 5,300 employees in the U.S. and approximately 6,000 in other jurisdictions. We view the strength of our team and our talented colleagues around the world as a critical component of our past and future success. We are committed to continuing to be a company our colleagues can be proud of and to attracting, retaining and developing the best talent in the industry through our focus on workplace culture and engagement, diversity, equity and inclusion, talent recruitment, development and retention, benefits and compensation, and employee health and safety. The Human Resources Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing talent development, diversity and inclusion, and employee engagement programs and policies, and the Quality and Innovation Committee regularly reviews employee health and safety metrics.\nCertain of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in particular jurisdictions, including a small number of employees in the U.S.\nWorkplace Culture and Employee Engagement\nWe have established Core Beliefs that are the foundation of the commitments we make to each other, our customers and our stakeholders every day:\n\u2022Our Colleagues Make the Difference\n\u2022Always Do the Right Thing\n\u2022Customer Obsessed\n\u2022Run It Like You Own It\n\u2022We are One Zoetis\nWe value responsibility and integrity. Our Code of Conduct contains general guidelines for conducting business with the highest standards of ethics. We are committed to an environment where open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception. We have an Open Door Policy where colleagues are encouraged to present ideas, concerns, questions, problems or suggestions directly to any level of leadership within Zoetis, without fear of retaliation.\nWe assess colleague engagement and key drivers enabling organizational performance by regularly conducting employee engagement surveys. Our engagement rate in 2020 was 89%. Insights from the Company\u2019s engagement survey are used to develop both company-wide and business function level organizational and talent development plans.\n11 |\nDiversity, Equity and Inclusion\nWe strive to create an environment where colleagues feel valued and cared for and understand the important role we play in embracing diversity to improve the quality of our innovation, collaboration and relationships. In January 2020, we appointed a new Chief Talent, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Officer, reporting to our Chief Human Resources Officer, who oversees a team dedicated to executing on our diversity, equity and inclusion strategy, which is reviewed with our executive leadership team and Board of Directors each year.\nOur diversity, equity & inclusion focus and commitment begins with our leadership team of diverse backgrounds, experiences and ethnicities (50% of the executive team, including our Chief Executive Officer, are women), and it is demonstrated in our support of our colleagues and industry. We are committed to accelerating inclusion, equity and more diverse representation across the company and have developed aspirations for change to make Zoetis and our industry more inclusive, including specific aspirations focused on increasing the representation of people of color and women within our company by the end of 2025.\n\u2022Increase representation of women at the director level and above globally from 32% to 40%;\n\u2022Increase overall representation among people of color in the U.S. from 21% to 25%;\n\u2022Increase representation of Black colleagues in the U.S. from 4% to 5%; and\n\u2022Increase representation of Latinx colleagues in the U.S. from 5% to 6%.\nWe established a Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Council in January 2020 that represents a diverse group of colleagues across locations, functions and communities, who serve as ambassadors and champions for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. In addition to the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Council, in 2020, we also introduced six Colleague Resource Groups, which are an important catalyst to foster a diverse, inclusive environment, while positively impacting our business and community.\nIn 2020, we offered diversity, equity and inclusion training to all our employees.\nTalent Recruitment, Development and Retention\nWe employ a variety of career development, employee benefits, policies and compensation programs designed to attract, develop and retain our colleagues. Employee benefits and policies are designed for diverse needs including generous parental leave policies and expanded adoption, fertility and surrogacy benefits for all colleagues equitably. We have internal programs designed to develop and retain talent, including a talent portal, mentoring programs, career planning resources, leadership development programs, performance management and training programs. In particular, our R&D team recruits scientists and research and development personnel from universities and scientific associations and forums and leverages a variety of R&D-specific talent tools. In 2020, our voluntary attrition rate was 10.6%.\nCompensation and Benefits\nWe strive to support our colleagues\u2019 well-being and enable them to achieve their best at work and at home. Our compensation and benefits and programs are designed to support colleague well-being including physical and mental health, financial wellness, and family and lifestyle resources. We recognize the diverse needs of our colleagues around the world and have developed comprehensive programs that vary by country and region to best address them. In the U.S., these benefits include flexible work arrangements, educational assistance, mental health support, and inclusive family-friendly benefits like fully paid parental leave, including for adoptions, fathers and same sex partners, as well as fertility and surrogacy benefits. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we enhanced our childcare benefits and our flexible work arrangements to support our colleagues in managing their work and family responsibilities.\nWe are proud of our continuing record of being recognized as a top employer by esteemed publications and organizations around the world.\nEmployee Health and Safety\nWe are committed to ensuring a safe working environment for our colleagues, and our Global Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy standards define EHS performance requirements for each site, procedures and recommended practices. Our sites have injury prevention programs, and we strive to build a best-in-class safety culture. Our procedures emphasize the need for the cause of injuries to be investigated and for action plans to be implemented to mitigate potential recurrence.\nWe track health and safety performance metrics including total injury rate (TIR), lost time injury rate (LTIR), restricted work injuries and medical treatment injuries on a monthly basis for all manufacturing and research and development sites, as well as for U.S. offices, field force, fleet and logistics. Since 2018, we have tracked TIR and LTIR for all our operations worldwide. Our safety programs have resulted in strong safety performance, with TIR and LTIR rates being lower than the industry averages.\nIn response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have implemented and continue to implement safety measures in all our facilities.\n12 |\nInformation about our Executive Officers\nKristin C. Peck\nAge 49\nChief Executive Officer and Director\nMs. Peck has served as our Chief Executive Officer since January 2020 and as a director since October 2019. Prior to becoming CEO, Ms. Peck was Executive Vice President and Group President, U.S. Operations, Business Development and Strategy at Zoetis from March 2018 to December 2019. Ms. Peck previously served as our Executive Vice President and President, U.S. Operations from May 2015 to February 2018 and Executive Vice President and Group President from October 2012 through April 2015. In these roles, Ms. Peck helped usher Zoetis through its Initial Public Offering in 2013 and has been a driving force of change in areas including Global Manufacturing and Supply, Global Poultry, Global Diagnostics, Corporate Development, and New Product Marketing and Global Market Research. Before joining Zoetis, Ms. Peck served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Business Development and Innovation at Pfizer Inc. and as a member of Pfizer's Executive Leadership Team.\nGlenn David\nAge 49\nExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer\nMr. David has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2016. With more than 25 years of experience in finance and operations, Mr. David has played a key role in leading the financial operations for Zoetis since its initial public offering in 2013. He served as our Senior Vice President of Finance Operations from 2013 to 2016 and as acting Chief Financial Officer from April 2014 through August 2014. Mr. David joined Pfizer in 1999 and held various financial roles, including Vice President of Global Finance for Pfizer Animal Health, our predecessor company, and Vice President of Finance for the U.S. Primary Care franchise.\nTimothy J. Bettington\nAge 47\nExecutive Vice President and President, U.S. Operations\nMr. Bettington has served as our Executive Vice President and President, U.S. Operations since January 2020. Mr. Bettington joined Zoetis from Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) where he served for 12 years, most recently as North American Region Head of Commercial Operations for BI\u2019s animal health business from January 2017 to December 2019. Mr. Bettington was also BI\u2019s Global Head of Customer Experience from August 2015 to December 2016, and Vice President of Sales and Marketing for the U.S. from April 2012 to July 2015. Prior to BI, Mr. Bettington served as Senior Manager Food Animal Marketing at Novartis Animal Health from February 2006 to March 2008. During his years at BI and Novartis Animal Health, Mr. Bettington developed a deep expertise in sales, marketing, strategy and business integration.\nHeidi C. Chen\nAge 54\nExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary\nMs. Chen has served as our Executive Vice President and General Counsel since October 2012, and as our Corporate Secretary since July 2012. Since January 2020, Ms. Chen has had oversight responsibility for our Human Health Diagnostics business. Prior to Zoetis, Ms. Chen was Vice President and Chief Counsel of Pfizer Animal Health, our predecessor company, from 2009 to 2012. Ms. Chen joined Pfizer in 1998 and held various legal and compliance positions of increasing responsibility, including lead counsel for Pfizer\u2019s Established Products (generics) business.\nRobert E. Kelly\nAge 49\nExecutive Vice President and President, International Operations\nMr. Kelly was appointed Executive Vice President and President, International Operations in January 2020, and also oversees Pharmaq, our aquatic health business. Mr. Kelly was previously our President of International Operations from March 2018 to December 2019, Senior Vice President of the Asia-Pacific Cluster from April 2015 to February 2018 and Senior Vice President of U.S. Cattle and Equine from November 2009 to April 2015. Mr. Kelly also worked at Wyeth/Fort Dodge Animal Health and Schering Plough before joining Pfizer Animal Health as part of the Wyeth acquisition.\nCatherine A. Knupp\nAge 60\nExecutive Vice President and President of Research and Development\nDr. Knupp has served as our Executive Vice President and President of Research and Development since October 2012. From 2005 to 2012, she served as Vice President of Pfizer\u2019s Veterinary Medicine Research and Development business unit. Dr. Knupp joined Pfizer in July 2001 and held various positions, including Vice President of Pfizer\u2019s Michigan laboratories for Pharmacokinetics, Dynamics and Metabolism.\n13 |\nRoxanne Lagano\nAge 56\nExecutive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer and Global Operations\nMs. Lagano has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2012 and was given responsibility for the Global Operations and Security functions in January 2020. She previously had oversight of the company\u2019s Corporate Communications function from 2015 to 2019. Prior to joining Zoetis, Ms. Lagano was Senior Vice President, Global Compensation, Benefits and Wellness for Pfizer. Ms. Lagano joined Pfizer in 1997 and held various positions, including Senior Director, Business Transactions, Pfizer Worldwide Human Resources.\nWafaa Mamilli\nAge 54\nExecutive Vice President and Chief Information and Digital Officer\nMs. Mamilli has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Information and Digital Officer since January 2020. Ms. Mamilli joined Zoetis from Eli Lilly and Company where she most recently served as Global Chief Information Officer for business units from January 2019 to January 2020, where she had worldwide responsibility for digital and technology across customer experience, sales, marketing and medical affairs for diabetes, oncology, bio medicines and international business. Prior to that, she was Eli Lilly\u2019s Chief Information Security Officer from March 2016 to March 2019 and Information Officer for the Diabetes Business Unit & Real World Evidence from May 2014 to March 2016. During her tenure at Eli Lilly, Ms. Mamilli held a variety of international and U.S. leadership positions while establishing high-performing teams to identify and deliver on opportunities at the intersection of healthcare, information technology, big data and analytics.\nJ. Michael McFarland\nAge 62\nExecutive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer\nDr. McFarland was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer in November 2020 and also leads Global Commercial Development (GCD), Customer Experience, and Sustainability at Zoetis. Previously, Dr. McFarland served as our Executive Vice President and Group President, Accelerated Growth Businesses from January 2020 to November 2020 where he oversaw a portfolio of Zoetis businesses, including Global Diagnostics, Genetics, BioDevices, Precision Livestock Farming and Platinum Performance. Dr. McFarland previously served as our Head of U.S. Cattle Marketing and Marketing Operations from May 2019 to January 2020, after having played a similar role for the U.S. Petcare business from June 2015 to May 2019 during a period of key product launches and growth. During his career, he has led veterinary services and marketing organizations for companion animals and livestock at Zoetis and Pfizer. Dr. McFarland also worked for 15 years in private practice as a companion animal veterinarian.\nAbhay Nayak\nAge 33\nExecutive Vice President, Head of Strategy and Accelerated Growth Businesses\nMr. Nayak serves as our Executive Vice President, Head of Strategy and Accelerated Growth Businesses, where he leads our global business strategy and drives strategic alignment and execution across a group of businesses, including Global Diagnostics, Genetics, BioDevices, Precision Livestock Farming and Platinum Performance. He was appointed as our Head of Strategy and Accelerated Growth Businesses in November 2020 and became Executive Vice President in February 2021. Previously, he served as our Head of Global Strategy, Commercial Development and Customer Experience at Zoetis from January 2020 to November 2020 and as our Head of Corporate Strategy from July 2018 to December 2019. Prior to joining Zoetis, Mr. Nayak was a consultant at McKinsey & Company from July 2015 to June 2018, where he advised leading pharmaceutical and medical device companies on crafting and executing global growth strategies. Prior to that, Mr. Nayak was an Assistant Vice President at Barclays Bank Plc in their Investment Banking Division in London.\nSherry Pudloski\nAge 53\nExecutive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications\nMs. Pudloski has served as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications since March 2020, overseeing Zoetis' U.S. and International Public Affairs teams and Corporate Communications organization. Ms. Pudloski joined Zoetis from Guardian Life Insurance Company where she most recently served as Chief Communications Officer. Ms. Pudloski has considerable experience in communications, corporate social responsibility and healthcare policy. She formerly held executive leadership roles with Pfizer, Novartis and Ogilvy Public Relations, where she led the global healthcare practice.\nRoman Trawicki\nAge 57\nExecutive Vice President and President of Global Manufacturing and Supply\nMr. Trawicki has served as our Executive Vice President and President, Global Manufacturing and Supply since May 2015. He joined Zoetis in January 2015 as President, Global Manufacturing and Supply. From 2009 to 2014, he was GE Healthcare\u2019s General Manager of Global Supply Chain for Medical Diagnostics, where he focused on diagnostics, injectable contrast media and nuclear medicines. During his career, Mr. Trawicki has also gained extensive global leadership experience in lean manufacturing, supply and operations from additional roles at GE Healthcare, Coloplast and Smith & Nephew.\n14 |\nEnvironmental, Health and Safety\nWe are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. Due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. These authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions.\nCertain environmental laws, such as the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or those who currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. In addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property.\nWe have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. In connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2020 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows:\n\u2022environmental-related capital expenditures - approximately $4 million; and\n\u2022other environmental-related expenditures - approximately $18 million.\nHowever, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. This increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products.\nIn connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. We have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all.\nWhile we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we currently have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.\nAvailable Information\nThe company's Internet website address is www.zoetis.com. On our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).\nAlso available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at Zoetis and our Board of Directors, including as follows: our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Zoetis Code of Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, and Controller); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our Directors; Board Committees and Committee Charters; and ways to communicate by email with our Directors. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Zoetis Inc., 10 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054. Information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. We will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of these ethics policies and standards affecting our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, and Controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable SEC and NYSE rules.\nWe use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure promulgated by the SEC. These disclosures are included in the \u201cInvestors\u201d and \u201cNews & Media\u201d sections of our website. Accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts.\nThe information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this 2020 Annual Report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Our references to the URLs for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.\n15 |
Item 1A. Risk Factors.\nIn addition to the other information set forth in this 2020 Annual Report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline.\nThis report contains \u201cforward-looking\u201d statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. We generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as \u201canticipate,\u201d \u201cestimate,\u201d \u201ccould,\u201d \u201cexpect,\u201d \u201cintend,\u201d \u201cproject,\u201d \u201cplan,\u201d \u201cpredict,\u201d \u201cbelieve,\u201d \u201cseek,\u201d \u201ccontinue,\u201d \u201coutlook,\u201d \"objective,\" \"target,\" \u201cmay,\u201d \u201cmight,\u201d \u201cwill,\u201d \u201cshould,\u201d \u201ccan have,\u201d \u201clikely\u201d or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. Forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events.\nIn particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and any recovery therefrom on our business, our 2021 financial guidance, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, product supply disruptions, R&D costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, anticipated timing of generic market entries, integration of acquired businesses, interest rates, tax rates and tax regimes and any changes thereto, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans related to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. However, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. You should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.\nWe undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and 8-K reports and our other filings with the SEC. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.\nSummary of Risk Factors\nOur business is subject to a number of risks of which you should be aware before making a decision to invest in our common stock. These risks are more fully described in this \u201cRisk Factors\u201d section, including the following:\nRisks related to our business and industry\n\u2022The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected the global economy; has disrupted our and our customers', suppliers', and vendors' operations; has significantly affected our business and operations; and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.\n\u2022Our products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns.\n\u2022Our results of operations are dependent on the success of our top products.\n\u2022Generic and other products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products.\n\u2022The animal health industry is highly competitive.\n\u2022Disruptive innovations and advances in medical practices and technologies could negatively affect the market for our products.\n\u2022Consolidation of our customers and distributors could negatively affect the pricing of our products.\n\u2022Changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products.\n\u2022Restrictions and bans on the use of and consumer preferences regarding antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent.\n\u2022Perceived adverse effects linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products or animals generally could cause a decline in the sales of such products.\n\u2022Increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products.\n\u2022An outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products.\nRisks related to research and development\n\u2022Our R&D, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle innovations.\n\u2022We may experience difficulties or delays in the development, manufacturing and commercialization of new products.\n\u2022Our R&D relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional restrictive regulations.\n16 |\nRisks related to manufacturing\n\u2022Manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs.\n\u2022We rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services, and are subject to increased labor and material costs and potential disruptions in supply.\n\u2022There may be delays and additional costs due to changes to our existing manufacturing facilities and the construction of new manufacturing plants.\nRisks related to legal matters and regulation\n\u2022Our business is subject to substantial regulation.\n\u2022The misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages.\n\u2022Laws and regulations governing global trade compliance could adversely impact our business.\n\u2022We may be unable to adequately protect our stakeholders' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws.\nRisks related to operating in foreign jurisdictions\n\u2022A significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions, including jurisdictions presenting a high risk of bribery and corruption, and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business.\n\u2022We may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets and are subject to certain risks due to our presence in emerging markets, including political or economic instability and failure to adequately comply with legal and regulatory requirements.\nRisks related to intellectual property\n\u2022The alleged intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business.\n\u2022If our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts.\nRisks related to information technology\n\u2022We may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, breaches of security or misappropriation of data, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure.\nRisks related to our relationship with Pfizer\n\u2022Certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with Pfizer.\n\u2022Pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products.\n\u2022We are dependent on Pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property.\n\u2022If there is a later determination that the Exchange Offer or certain related transactions are taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the IRS private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities.\nRisks related to our business and industry\nThe COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected the global economy; has disrupted our and our customers', suppliers', and vendors' operations; has significantly affected our business and operations; and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.\nThe spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and shutdowns of non-essential businesses. While some of these restrictions have been lifted or eased in certain jurisdictions, other jurisdictions have seen increases in new COVID-19 cases, resulting in restrictions being reinstated or new restrictions being imposed.\nEven though we are currently designated as an essential business and have continued physical operations with respect to manufacturing and supply chain globally, these measures have impacted and may further impact all or portions of our workforce and operations, the operations and workforce of our customers, and those of our respective vendors and suppliers. There is no certainty that measures taken by governmental authorities will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus, and our ability to continue to perform critical functions could be harmed.\nThere continues to be considerable uncertainty regarding such measures and potential future measures. In particular, we, and the contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs) we work with, could be asked or ordered to perform certain activities for human health that would divert significant manufacturing and other resources away from our business and could expose us to additional liability. Future restrictions on our access to or control over our manufacturing facilities or on our support operations or workforce, or similar limitations on our vendors or suppliers, and restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures and increased border controls or closures, or export bans could limit our ability to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.\n17 |\nThe COVID-19 pandemic also has and may continue to reduce demand for our products as a result of the negative impact it has had and may continue to have on our livestock and companion animal customers. Our livestock customers have been and may continue to be challenged by voluntary or mandatory facility closures, reduced packing plant capacity, travel bans and quarantines inhibiting consumption of protein and transportation of live animals, and labor shortages negatively impacting their operations. For example, a number of significant meat processing plants were closed temporarily during the COVID-19 pandemic after employees tested positive for COVID-19. In addition, our companion animal customers\u2019 businesses in certain geographies have been and may continue to be negatively impacted by reduced demand for their veterinary services. The resulting reduction in demand for our products, has negatively impacted our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows, if such demand reduction accelerates or is prolonged.\nMoreover, while our research and development organization has continued to operate as an essential business, future measures imposed by governments and other authorities to try to contain the COVID-19 pandemic could impede the ability of our R&D organization to complete clinical studies required to register new products in the manner and on the timeline we anticipate and current and future product approvals may be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.\nThe COVID-19 pandemic has also significantly increased economic uncertainty and has led to continued disruption and volatility in the global capital markets, which could increase the cost of capital and adversely impact access to capital. The economic impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global recession that may continue for an unknown period of time. In order to preserve liquidity, we issued debt securities in May 2020 and we may incur additional indebtedness, whether through the issuance of debt securities, drawdowns under our credit facility or otherwise in the future. An increase in our outstanding indebtedness will result in additional interest expense. We may also seek to conserve cash by reducing or canceling future dividends or delaying capital expenditures. Risks related to negative economic conditions are described in our risk factor titled \"Our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions\" below.\nAdditionally, many of our workforce continue to work remotely as a result of the pandemic. Remote working arrangements could increase operational risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with information technology and systems, including service interruptions, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Working outside of the typical work environment may also introduce additional complexity or inefficiency into our normal processes for key areas like the preparation of financial statements or marketing and sales, which could negatively impact our business. In addition, actions we have taken or may take, or decisions we have made or may make, as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, including as part of the reopening process, may also result in legal claims or litigation against us.\nWe cannot at this time predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, but we anticipate that the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to continue to impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows in 2021. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also exacerbate the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section, any of which could have a material effect on us. This situation continues to change rapidly and additional impacts may arise that we are not aware of currently.\nOur products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns.\nUnanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to our products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims.\nRegulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product\u2019s sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results.\nIn addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, quality or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. These concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate.\nOur results of operations are dependent upon the success of our top products.\nIf any of our top products experience issues, such as loss of patent protection, material product liability litigation, new or unexpected side effects, manufacturing disruptions, regulatory proceedings, labeling changes, negative publicity, changes to veterinarian or customer preferences, and/or disruptive innovations or the introduction of more effective products, our revenues could be negatively impacted, perhaps significantly. Our top five products, Apoquel, the Simparica product line, the Revolution/Revolution Plus/Stronghold product line, Draxxin, and the ceftiofur product line, contributed approximately 31% of our revenue in 2020. Any issues with these top products would have a more significant impact to our results of operations.\nGeneric and other products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products.\nWe face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. We depend on patents and regulatory data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. Patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. The extent of protection afforded by our patents varies from country to country and is limited by the scope of the claimed subject matter of our patents, the term of the patent and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies in the applicable country. As a result, we face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products that no longer have patent protection. In certain circumstances, we have been forced to lower our prices and provide discounts or rebates in order to compete with generic products. Generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before patent rights expire and, because of their pricing, are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. For example, several companies have launched generic versions of our Rimadyl chewable product. As a result of generic and other competition, sales of our Rimadyl chewable product in the U.S.\n18 |\nhave declined by approximately 23% in the years since their introduction. Sales of our Clavamox products in the U.S. also continue to be negatively impacted by generic competition.\nAlthough the impact of generic competition in the animal health industry to date has not typically mirrored that seen in human health, in certain markets, the impact of generic competition in the future may more closely mirror human health as a result of changes in industry dynamics, such as channel expansion, customer consolidation, an increase in the availability and use of pet insurance and the potential for generic competition by established animal health businesses. If animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.\nSome of our products' patents have expired, and over the next few years, additional products' patents will expire as described below. Draxxin, Revolution/Revolution Plus/Stronghold, and the ceftiofur product line contributed approximately 15% of our revenue in 2020.\n\u2022Draxxin, containing the active ingredient tulathromycin, is covered by a formulation patent in the U.S. that expired in February 2021. Corresponding formulation patents in Europe, Canada, Australia and other key markets expired in late 2020, with the exception of the formulation patents in Brazil and Japan that both expire in 2025. The active ingredient tulathromycin is protected in Brazil until 2022 and in Japan until 2023. Generic tulathromycin products are now marketed in key markets including Europe, Canada, Mexico and Australia, as well as in many smaller markets. Additional marketing authorizations for generic tulathromycin products may be granted in various markets in the future. Market entry of generic tulathromycin products in the U.S. is expected in 2021.\n\u2022Several patents covering Excede/Naxcel, part of the ceftiofur antibiotic product line, began expiring in the U.S. in 2015. The patent covering the commercial formulation of Excede in the U.S. extends to 2024, but expires in September 2021 in Europe, Canada and Australia. Corresponding patents in Japan and Brazil expire in 2026 and 2027, respectively. The commercial method of administration patent relevant to the product line expires in 2023 in the U.S., Europe and Australia. Generic versions of Excede have entered the market in Mexico and Russia. At this time, the market entry of a generic version of Excede in the U.S. is not anticipated before 2024.\n\u2022The compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticides Revolution, Revolution Plus and Stronghold, expired in 2014. Formulation patents covering these products expired in important markets in 2019. Generic versions of selamectin are now sold in markets including the U.S., Europe, Australia and Canada.\n\u2022In addition, the patent for the active ingredient of Convenia\u00ae has expired; however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between November 2022 and October 2023.\n\u2022The patent for the active ingredient of Cerenia has expired; however, there are formulation patents relevant to the injectable product line which expire between 2025 and 2028. Generic versions of Cerenia have been registered and marketed in Canada and Europe. At this time, there is no indication of an impending market entry of a generic version of Cerenia in the U.S.\n\u2022The formulation patent covering ProHeart 12 expired in the U.S. in 2019, but expires in Australia, Canada and Japan in October 2021.\nZoetis typically enforces its patents whenever appropriate both within and outside the U.S., including by filing infringement claims against other parties.\nThe animal health industry is highly competitive.\nThe animal health industry is highly competitive. We believe many of our competitors are conducting R&D activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. Our competitors include standalone animal health businesses and the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies. There are also several start-up companies working in the animal health area. We also compete with companies that produce generic products, but the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. These competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources or have significant market share in particular areas. As a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. In recent years, there has been an increase in consolidation in the animal health industry, which could result in existing competitors realizing additional efficiencies or improving portfolio bundling opportunities, thereby potentially increasing their market share and pricing power, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and profitability and an increase in competition. In addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostics industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete.\nTo the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us.\nDisruptive innovations and advances in medical practices and technologies could negatively affect the market for our products.\nThe market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including \u201cgreen\u201d or \u201cholistic\u201d health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. In addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. Introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nConsolidation of our customers and distributors could negatively affect the pricing of our products.\nVeterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. In recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. In addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, and our distributors, have\n19 |\nseen consolidation in their industries. Furthermore, we have seen the expansion of larger cross-border corporate customers and an increase in the consolidation of buying groups (cooperatives of veterinary practices that leverage volume to pursue discounts from manufacturers). The pace of consolidation and structure of markets varies greatly across geographies. If these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers and distributors could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. The resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.\nChanges in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products.\nIn most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. Companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as Internet-based retailers, \u201cbig-box\u201d retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. This trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years and has been accelerated by the increase in e-commerce during the COVID-19 pandemic. Companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on Internet-based animal health information. Because we primarily market our companion animal products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives.\nLegislation has also been proposed in the U.S. in the past, and may be proposed in the U.S. or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. For example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. Such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. Many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the American Veterinary Medical Association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice.\nIn the U.S. and certain other markets, these and other competitive conditions have increased, and may continue to increase, our reliance on Internet-based retailers, \u201cbig-box\u201d retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. Over time we may be unable to sustain our current margins due to the increased purchasing power of such retailers as compared to traditional veterinary practices.\nAny of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nWe may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses.\nWe pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. We may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. In addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. Even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. We may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. We also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Divesting businesses entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties separating businesses or product groups, diversion of management\u2019s attention away from other business concerns, adverse customer reaction, and potential loss of key employees or customers. Our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. We may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient.\nWhile our evaluation of any potential transaction includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions or fines resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities, inadequate controls, or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target\u2019s legacy products.\nAny of these events could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nAcquiring or implementing new business lines or offering new products and services may subject us to additional risks.\nFrom time to time, we may acquire or implement new business lines or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. For example, we have recently expanded our diagnostics business with additional point-of-care offerings and reference labs. We are also investing in genetics and precision livestock farming, digital technology and data analytics and insurance agency services. There may be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. We may invest significant time and resources in developing, marketing, or acquiring new lines of business and/or offering new products and services. Initial timetables for the introduction and development or acquisition of new lines of business and/or the offering of new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may prove to be unachievable. Our lack of experience or knowledge, as well as external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the success of an acquisition or the implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service.\n20 |\nNew business lines or new products and services within existing lines of business could affect the sales and profitability of existing lines of business or products and services. Other risks include: (i) potential diversion of management\u2019s attention, available cash, and other resources from our existing businesses; (ii) unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; (iii) the need for additional capital and other resources to expand into or acquire the new line of business; (iv) potential damage to existing customer relationships, lack of customer acceptance or inability to attract new customers; and (v) the inability to compete effectively. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the implementation or acquisition of new lines of business or the offering of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.\nRestrictions and bans on the use of and consumer preferences regarding antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent.\nThe issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterial resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, continue to be the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. Antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. In some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). These restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. Our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020.\nFor example, regulations regarding antibiotic usage in animals have been introduced in certain markets, including the U.S., the EU, China, France, Germany, and Vietnam. In addition, certain jurisdictions like Italy have implemented the use of electronic prescriptions, which has caused more disciplined use of antibiotics and decreased the demand for our products.\nIn certain markets, there has been an increase in consumer preference towards proteins produced without the use of antibiotics.\nWe cannot predict whether antibacterial resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations, public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals or increased consumer preference for antibiotic-free protein, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nPerceived adverse effects linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products or animals generally could cause a decline in the sales of such products.\nOur livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. If the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. For example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition, health-related, environmental or other concerns. Any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. Adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, changing consumer preferences and increasing consumer interest in alternatives to animal-based protein and dairy products has driven the growth of plant-based substitutes. Any resulting reduced demand for animal-based foods could adversely affect the livestock industry and, as a result, reduce demand for our livestock products, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nOur business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions.\nMacroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. If one or more of our large customers, including distributors, discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. Moreover, customers may seek lower price alternatives to our products if they are negatively impacted by poor economic conditions. Infectious disease outbreaks, pandemics and widespread fear of spreading disease through human contact can cause disruptions to or negatively impact our, our customers\u2019 and our distributors\u2019 business operations, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, our exposure to credit and collectability risk is higher in certain international markets and our ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit and collectability risk, there can be no assurances such procedures will effectively limit such risk and avoid losses.\nIncreased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products.\nCompanies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. If livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, new or more stringent regulations could, directly or indirectly, impact the use of one or more of our products. More stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products.\n21 |\nAn outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products.\nSales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. In addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. In recent years, outbreaks of various diseases, including African Swine Fever, avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease) and porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as PEDv), have impacted the animal health business. The discovery of additional cases of any of these, or new, diseases may result in additional restrictions on animal proteins, reduced herd sizes, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere.\nOur business may be negatively affected by weather conditions, natural disasters and the availability of natural resources.\nWeather conditions, including excessive cold or heat, natural disasters and other events, could negatively impact our livestock customers by impairing the health or growth of their animals or the production or availability of feed. Such events can also interfere with our livestock customers\u2019 operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to their farms or facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. For example, severe droughts can lead to a decrease in harvested corn and higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. Higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. In addition, droughts can lead to reduced availability of grazing pastures, forcing cattle producers to cull their herds. Fewer heads of cattle could result in reduced demand for our products. Heat waves may cause stress in animals and lead to increased vulnerability to disease, reduced fertility rates and reduced milk production. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters may also have a material impact on the aquaculture business.\nFurthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. Their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth, or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. In the event of a natural disaster, adverse weather conditions, or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products and our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.\nIn addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. Veterinarians\u2019 patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience natural disasters, including floods, fires, earthquakes and hurricanes or other storms, or prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather.\nAdverse weather events and natural disasters may also interfere with and negatively impact operations at our manufacturing sites, research and development facilities and office buildings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, especially if such interruptions to regular operations are frequent or prolonged.\nThe animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in particular regions are also affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. As a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations.\nClimate change could have a material adverse impact on our and our customers\u2019 businesses.\nWe operate in many regions, countries and communities around the world where our businesses, and the activities of our customers, could be disrupted by climate change. Potential physical risks from climate change may include altered distribution and intensity of rainfall, prolonged droughts or flooding, increased frequency of wildfires and other natural disasters, rising sea levels, and a rising heat index, any of which could cause negative impacts to our and our customers\u2019 businesses. Increased temperatures and rising water levels may negatively impact our livestock customers by increasing the prevalence of parasites and diseases that affect food animals. In addition, changes in water temperatures could affect the timing of reproduction and growth of various fish species, and trigger the outbreak of certain water borne diseases. The physical changes caused by climate change may also prompt changes in regulations or consumer preferences which in turn could have negative consequences for our and our customers\u2019 businesses. Climate change may negatively impact our customers\u2019 operations, particularly those in the livestock industry, through climate-related impacts such as increased air and water temperatures, rising water levels and increased incidence of disease in livestock. If such events affect our customers\u2019 businesses, they may purchase fewer Zoetis products, and our revenues may be negatively impacted. Climate driven changes could have a material adverse impact on the financial performance of our business, and on our customers.\nMoreover, there has been a broad range of proposed and promulgated state, national and international regulation aimed at reducing the effects of climate change. Such regulations apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or could have interests in the future. In the U.S., there is a significant possibility that some form of regulation will be enacted at the federal level to address the effects of climate change. Such regulation could take several forms that could result in additional costs in the form of investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations and taxes. Climate change regulation continues to evolve, and it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation.\nModification of foreign trade policy by the U.S. or foreign countries or the imposition of tariffs on U.S. or foreign goods may harm our business.\nChanges in U.S. laws, agreements and policies governing foreign trade in the territories and countries where our customers do business could negatively impact such customers\u2019 businesses and adversely affect our operating results. A number of our customers, particularly U.S.-based\n22 |\nlivestock producers, benefit from free trade agreements. The U.S., Canada and Mexico reached an agreement to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which became effective on July 1, 2020, but it remains to be seen what the ultimate impact of the new USMCA will be on our customers. The new provisions of the USMCA, as well as any other changes to international trade agreements or policies, could harm our customers, and as a result, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.\nAdditionally, in response to U.S. tariffs affecting foreign exports, some foreign governments, including China, have instituted and may in the future institute tariffs on certain U.S. goods. While the scope and duration of these and any future tariffs remains uncertain, tariffs imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments on our products or the active pharmaceutical ingredients or other components thereof could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.\nOur business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income.\nFeed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. Either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. Our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. In addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. These shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership.\nOur business could be adversely affected by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages.\nSome of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the U.S. As a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. We may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. We could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. We may also experience difficulty or delays in implementing changes to our workforce in certain markets. In addition, labor problems at our suppliers, CMOs or other service providers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.\nLoss of our executive officers or other key personnel or other changes to our management team could disrupt our operations or harm our business.\nWe depend on the efforts of our executive officers and certain key personnel. Our executive officers and other key personnel are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. In addition, we generally do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key personnel. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officers or other key positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. The loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers or other key personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.\nWe may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets.\nUnder accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. As of December 31, 2020, we had goodwill of $2.7 billion and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $1.7 billion. Identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents, acquired customer relationships and in-process R&D.\nDetermining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. Future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. The timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Income and write-downs recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. Any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position.\nRisks related to research and development\nOur R&D, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle innovations.\nOur future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. We commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to R&D, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties.\nWe may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. In addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. The animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. Furthermore, the timing and cost of our R&D may increase, and our R&D may become less predictable. For example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to\n23 |\nresearch, develop and register products. If we are unable to generate new products or expand the use of our existing products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.\nNew product R&D leverages discoveries of agribusiness, pharmaceutical and biotechnology R&D. We have and expect to continue to enter into collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties to provide us with access to molecules, compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. Such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. If we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. If we are unable to access these technologies to conduct R&D on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited.\nWe may experience difficulties or delays in the development, manufacturing and commercialization of new products.\nNew products may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or at all. In addition, product extensions or additional indications may not be approved. Developing and commercializing new products subjects us to inherent risks and uncertainties, including (i) delayed or denied regulatory approvals, (ii) delays or challenges with producing products in accordance with regulatory requirements, on a commercial scale and at a reasonable cost; (iii) failure to accurately predict the market for new products; and (iv) efficacy and safety concerns. In addition, a failure to continue to identify and develop products, both internally and through external sources, could impact our future success. Once necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any new product depends upon, among other things, its acceptance by veterinarians and end customers, and on our ability to successfully manufacture, market, and distribute products in sufficient quantities to meet actual demand. For example, we experienced challenges in manufacturing Apoquel when it was initially launched in 2015 that impacted our ability to meet customer demand. As a result, we had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians could purchase and delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. The inability to successfully bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could negatively impact our revenues and earnings.\nOur R&D relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional restrictive regulations.\nThe evaluation of our existing and new medicines and vaccines for animals is required in order to develop and commercialize them. Animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. To the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our R&D, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation.\nRisks related to manufacturing\nManufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs.\nIn order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. On December 31, 2020, we had a global manufacturing network consisting of 29 manufacturing sites located in 13 countries. We also employ a network of 144 third-party CMOs. Many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites.\nMinor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. In addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including:\n\u2022the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines, including any changes to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP);\n\u2022mislabeling;\n\u2022construction delays;\n\u2022equipment malfunctions;\n\u2022shortages of materials;\n\u2022labor problems, including any COVID-related impacts;\n\u2022delays in receiving any required governmental authorizations, including as a result of any prolonged shutdown of the U.S. government;\n\u2022natural disasters;\n\u2022power outages;\n\u2022criminal and terrorist activities;\n\u2022changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and\n\u2022the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites.\nThese interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. For example, we experienced challenges in manufacturing Apoquel when it was initially launched in 2015 that impacted our ability to meet customer demand. As a result, we had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians could purchase and delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. In addition, the\n24 |\nregulatory agency in Russia no longer accepts GMP certificates issued by outside authorities and instead requires country-specific GMP certification based on local GMP rules. As a result, we have ongoing programs at the relevant manufacturing sites to satisfy the Russia-specific GMP requirements. Our failure to achieve these necessary certifications on a timely basis or at all could impact our ability to sell our products in Russia.\nOur manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. The unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. In addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain.\nWe rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services, and are subject to increased labor and material costs and potential disruptions in supply.\nThe materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors, including any impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. Increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products, result in product delivery delays or shortages, and impact our ability to launch new products on a timely basis or at all. We may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nCertain third-party suppliers are the sole or exclusive source of certain materials and services necessary for production of our products. We may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us.\nThere may be delays and additional costs due to changes to our existing manufacturing facilities and the construction of new manufacturing plants.\nAs part of our supply network strategy, we have invested and will continue to invest in improvements to our existing manufacturing facilities and in new manufacturing plants. We are currently investing in a new plant in Suzhou, China for the research and production of vaccines in China. In addition, certain of our existing manufacturing facilities are in the process of being upgraded. These types of projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, and require licensure by various regulatory authorities. Significant cost overruns or delays in completing these projects could have an adverse effect on the Company\u2019s return on investment.\nRisks related to legal matters and regulation\nOur business is subject to substantial regulation.\nAs a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. An inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. Our failure, or the failure of third parties we rely on, including CMOs, to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. Any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nIn addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. Even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. We have changed, and may in the future change, the locations of where certain of our products are manufactured and, because of these changes, we may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. Our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, including any delays resulting from COVID-19 or any prolonged shutdown of the U.S. government, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever.\nFurthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. Changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S.\nChanges in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.\nWe may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters.\nOur operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. These matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of U.S. and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. In addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in\n25 |\nlegal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. For example, in the U.S., attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. If such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. We also sell certain nutritional and diagnostic products used in human health that could increase the scope of our liability.\nLitigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. An adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. Any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nThe misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages.\nOur products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. There may be increased risk of product liability claims and other liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. In addition, certain of our products could be misused or abused by humans, which could expose us to liability. For example, Ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our Ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is abused by humans as a hallucinogen. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. If we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nThe illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.\nThird parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. Counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. Counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products which are alleged to be equivalent and/or which are sold under our brand name. We are aware of at least one pharmacy in Brazil that may be engaged in the practice of illegally compounding oclacitinib, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our Apoquel product. In addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have an expired shelf life and which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. Public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations.\nLaws and regulations governing global trade compliance could adversely impact our business.\nThe U.S. Department of the Treasury\u2019s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), and the Bureau of Industry and Security at the U.S. Department of Commerce (BIS), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks, including risks specific to anti-bribery regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries, governments, entities, and individuals, and are constantly changing. Further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations.\nFrom time to time, we have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions and sell products in such countries. These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or that any businesses that we may acquire have complied with such regulations, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, in December 2020, we submitted a final voluntary disclosure to OFAC and the U.S. Department of Justice regarding certain transactions involving sales of food, medicine or devices to individuals or entities who may have been resident in or had ties to Iran potentially in violation of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations (ITSR) administered by OFAC. The sales were made by our Platinum Performance business, which we acquired in August 2019.\nWe are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.\nWe are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. Due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to\n26 |\nobtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. These authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions.\nGiven the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under CERCLA or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. See Item 1. Business-Environmental, Health and Safety. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. Such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. This increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products.\nA failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. We cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.\nWe may be unable to adequately protect our stakeholders' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws.\nThe protection of customer, employee, supplier and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. In addition, our customers, employees and suppliers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. Any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, could result in lost sales, remediation costs, and legal liability including severe penalties, regulatory action and reputational harm. For example, the EU\u2019s GDPR requires companies to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of data subjects to request correction or deletion of their personal data. Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. The GDPR requirements apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, including employee information. We have been investing in data and digital capabilities and have expanded our diagnostics portfolio, and as a result, we possess and process an increasing amount of data, which could increase the risk of our potential exposure.\nAdditionally, the exit by the U.K. from the European Union, or Brexit, took effect in January 2020, which will lead to further legislative and regulatory changes. While the Data Protection Act of 2018 that \u201cimplements\u201d and complements the GDPR achieved Royal Assent on May 23, 2018 and is now effective in the U.K., it is still unclear whether transfer of data from the EEA to the U.K. will remain lawful in the long term under GDPR. With the expiration of the transition period on December 31, 2020, companies will have to comply with the GDPR and the GDPR as incorporated into U.K. national law, which has the ability to separately fine up to the greater of \u00a317.5 million or 4% of global turnover. The relationship between the U.K. and the European Union in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, for example around how data can lawfully be transferred between each jurisdiction, which exposes us to further compliance risk. We may incur liabilities, expenses, costs, and other operational losses under GDPR and applicable EU Member States and the U.K. privacy laws in connection with any measures we take to comply with them.\nDespite our considerable efforts and investments in technology to secure personal, customer and supplier data stored on our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. Failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. In addition, the payment card industry (PCI) is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in PCI's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. Such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with PCI security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. Such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nRisks related to operating in foreign jurisdictions\nA significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions, including jurisdictions presenting a high risk of bribery and corruption, and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business.\nOur international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following:\n\u2022volatility in the international financial markets;\n\u2022compliance with governmental controls;\n\u2022difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;\n\u2022theft or compromise of technology, data and intellectual property;\n\u2022parallel trade in our products (importation of our products from European Union countries where our products are sold at lower prices into European Union countries where the products are sold at higher prices);\n\u2022compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the FCPA and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations;\n27 |\n\u2022compliance with foreign labor laws;\n\u2022burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements;\n\u2022changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers, including the imposition of limits on our profitability;\n\u2022political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts;\n\u2022trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by OFAC and the European Union, in relation to our products or the products of farmers and other customers (e.g., restrictions on the importation of agricultural products from the European Union to Russia);\n\u2022government limitations on foreign ownership;\n\u2022government takeover or nationalization of business;\n\u2022changes in tax laws and tariffs;\n\u2022imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions;\n\u2022costs and difficulties and compliance risks in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations, including the use of overseas third-party goods and service providers;\n\u2022corruption risk inherent in business arrangements and regulatory contacts with foreign government entities;\n\u2022longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk; and\n\u2022additional limitations on transferring personal information between countries or other restrictions on the processing of personal information.\nIn addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. Compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. A failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. In addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation or unauthorized re-importation of our products between jurisdictions and may also result in the imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings.\nIn June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom (U.K.) approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the European Union and on January 31, 2020, the U.K. exited the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" On December 24, 2020, the U.K. and EU reached a post-Brexit Trade and Cooperation Agreement that contains new rules governing the new relationship between the U.K. and the EU, including with respect to trade, travel and immigration among other things. Brexit-related impacts on our business could include disruption of the free movement of goods, services, and people between the U.K. and the EU, increased legal and regulatory complexities, higher costs of conducting business in Europe, potential inventory shortages in the U.K., increased regulatory burdens and costs to comply with U.K.-specific regulations and higher transportation costs for our products coming into and out of the U.K. Any further changes in international trade, tariff and import/export regulations as a result of Brexit or otherwise may impose unexpected duty costs or other non-tariff barriers on us. It is also possible that Brexit may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees, particularly those from the EU. The U.K.'s vote to exit the EU could also result in similar referendums or votes in other EU member countries in which we do business. Any of these effects, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.\nForeign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements.\nWe conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. In 2020, we generated approximately 42% of our revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the euro, Brazilian real, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, and U.K. pound. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. In addition, because our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations.\nWe also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. While we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. We currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including China, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.\n28 |\nWe may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets and are subject to certain risks due to our presence in emerging markets, including political or economic instability and failure to adequately comply with legal and regulatory requirements.\nWe have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets. Failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nSome countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. For example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. Furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. In addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. For example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in Latin America has been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations.\nIn addition, certain emerging markets have legal systems that are less developed or familiar to us. Other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may have legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from U.S. laws and regulations, are continuously evolving or do not include sufficient judicial or administrative guidance to interpret such laws and regulations. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. In the event we believe or have reason to believe our employees have or may have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to investigation costs, potential penalties and other related costs which in turn could negatively affect our reputation and our results of operations.\nFor all these and other reasons, doing business within emerging markets carries significant risks.\nRisks related to tax matters\nThe Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or foreign tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities.\nThe multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. The company\u2019s future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.\nFor example, on October 12, 2020, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published a package of reports, known as the Blueprints, which provide technical details about a two-pillar approach to address the tax challenges of the digital economy. Pillar One would amend profit allocation and nexus rules to grant more taxing rights to countries where consumers are located regardless of the physical presence of the business. Pillar Two introduces common global minimum tax rules across the countries participating in the OECD Inclusive Framework. Such rules would operate through top-up taxes and other measures if a multinational group\u2019s income is not subject to a sufficient level of tax in particular jurisdictions. These two proposals combined may represent a significant change in the international tax regime. These proposals require unanimous consent and are currently in a \u201cpublic comment\u201d period. There is risk of an adverse impact to our effective tax rate as a result of these proposals, but the amount of such impact remains uncertain at this time.\nWith a new administration elected in the 2020 U.S. presidential and congressional elections, the enactment of comprehensive tax reform may be likely which may have an adverse impact to our effective tax rate. At this time, we are properly reflecting the provision for taxes on income using all current enacted global tax laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate.\nIn addition, our effective tax rate is subject to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. The company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the company\u2019s effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or other material foreign jurisdictions, or if the ultimate determination of the company\u2019s taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the company\u2019s operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.\nRisks related to intellectual property\nThe alleged intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business.\nA third party may sue us, our distributors or licensors, or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. If we do not prevail in this type of dispute, we may be required to:\n\u2022pay monetary damages;\n\u2022obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or\n\u2022stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future.\nThe costs of defending an intellectual property action are often substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such action. Moreover, even if we believe that we do not infringe a validly existing third-party patent, we may choose to license such patent, which would result in associated costs and obligations. We may also incur costs in\n29 |\nconnection with an obligation to compensate a distributor, licensor or other third party. The intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not provide the right to practice the patented technology or to develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. We cannot guarantee that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that, in the absence of a license, may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable, which may harm our operating results and financial condition.\nIf our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts.\nOur long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. Our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. Similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. Our currently pending and granted patents may be challenged in post grant review, inter partes review or opposition or revocation proceedings. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. The valid scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. For example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. We may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. The validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings that differ between jurisdictions. Our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.\nChanges in patent law and practice in the U.S. and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights or make such enforcement financially unattractive. For instance, U.S. court decisions continue to influence changes to U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Guidelines regarding inventions in the field of products isolated from nature and diagnostic methods which may influence future patenting strategy in these areas. Patent law reforms and new case law could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property and/or limit our ability to adequately patent our products.\nAdditionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nLikewise, in the U.S. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or re-label a product. As our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected.\nMany of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. Despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. Further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise.\nThe misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S., may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. We are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. In the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition.\n30 |\nRisks related to information technology\nWe may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, breaches of security or misappropriation of data, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure.\nOur reputation as a global leader in animal health and our reliance on complex information systems and digital solutions make us inherently vulnerable to malicious cyber intrusion and attack. In addition, we have been investing in data and digital capabilities and have expanded our diagnostics portfolio, and as a result, there could be an increased likelihood of a cyber-attack or breach of security that could negatively impact us or our customers. Cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. Cyber-attacks could include wrongful conduct by hostile foreign governments, industrial espionage, the deployment of harmful malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, and other means to threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. In addition, despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we (or our third party partners) may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromise of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information (including confidential business information, trade secrets, intellectual property and corporate strategic plans), defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions.\nLike other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems. To date, those threats have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial condition. However, although we devote resources to protect our information technology systems, we expect cyber-attacks to continue, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent information security breaches that would result in business, legal or reputational harm to us, or would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.\nIf hackers or cyberthieves gain improper access to our technology systems, networks, or infrastructure, they may be able to access, steal, publish, delete, misappropriate, modify or otherwise disrupt access to confidential data. Moreover, additional harm to customers could be perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the confidential data. A network disruption (including one resulting from a cyberattack) could cause an interruption or degradation of service as well as permit access, theft, publishing, deletion, misappropriation, or modification to or of confidential data. Due to the evolving techniques used in cyberattacks to disrupt or gain unauthorized access to technology networks, we may not be able to anticipate or prevent such disruption or unauthorized access.\nThe costs imposed on us as a result of a cyberattack or network disruption could be significant. Among others, such costs could include increased expenditures on cyber security measures, litigation, regulatory investigations, fines, and sanctions, lost revenues from business interruption, damage to the public\u2019s perception regarding our ability to keep our information secure and significant remediation costs. As a result, a cyberattack or network disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.\nWe depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure.\nWe rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems to manage our operations, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. We also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. System failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our customers, or delay our financial reporting. Such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nIn addition, we depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information systems. These third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. Failure by these providers to adequately support our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.\nAll information systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. If our information systems were to fail or be breached, such failure or breach could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised.\nWe may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites.\nIn many markets around the world, such as the U.S. and Brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. The operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. Risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone or internet service or power outages; failures of the information systems that support our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. Problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation.\n31 |\nRisks related to our indebtedness\nWe have substantial indebtedness.\nWe have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $7.25 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. In addition, we currently have agreements for a multi-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program, each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. While we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future.\nWe may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including:\n\u2022making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;\n\u2022limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends;\n\u2022increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;\n\u2022exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest;\n\u2022limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry;\n\u2022placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors;\n\u2022impacting our effective tax rate; and\n\u2022increasing our cost of borrowing.\nIn addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. For example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with affiliates and incur priority indebtedness. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt.\nWe also have outstanding floating rate notes due 2021 (2021 floating rate notes) that have their interest rate calculated quarterly using three-month LIBOR. In addition, we hold certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our senior notes due 2028 so that a portion of the interest payable on these notes is effectively variable based on LIBOR. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021, and supervisory guidance has encouraged banks to stop using LIBOR in new financial contracts as soon as practical and, in any event, by the end of 2021. It continues to appear likely that LIBOR will be discontinued or modified by the end of 2021, or at the latest by June 2023 for certain U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors. In addition, the U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements backed by Treasury securities. Although there have been certain issuances utilizing SOFR, it is unknown whether this or any other alternative reference rate will attain market acceptance as a replacement for LIBOR. The discontinuance or modification of LIBOR, the introduction of alternative reference rates or other reforms to LIBOR could cause the interest rate calculated on our 2021 floating rate notes and the interest rate swap agreements associated with our senior notes due 2028 to be materially different than expected.\nWe may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.\nOur ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness.\nIf our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due.\nIn addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our\n32 |\nability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.\nOur inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock.\nWe may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes.\nUpon the occurrence of a change of control of Zoetis and a downgrade below investment grade by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and S&P Global Ratings, a division of S&P Global Inc., we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. However, we may not have sufficient funds available at the time of the change of control to finance the required change of control offer or restrictions in our then-existing debt instruments will not allow such repurchases. Our failure to purchase the senior notes as required under the indenture would result in a default under the indenture, which could have material adverse consequences for us and the holders of the senior notes.\nOur credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes.\nThe credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. There can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. Credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs.\nRisks related to our relationship with Pfizer\nCertain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with Pfizer.\nCertain of our directors are employed or have been employed by Pfizer or may own Pfizer common stock, options to purchase Pfizer common stock or other Pfizer equity awards. Certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. These directors' positions at Pfizer and the ownership of any Pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Pfizer than for us.\nPfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products.\nUnder the Patent and Know-How License Agreement (Pfizer as licensor) (the Patent and Know-How License Agreement), Pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. If we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and Pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. In addition, in circumstances where Pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to Pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. These limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors.\nWe are dependent on Pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property.\nUnder the Patent and Know-How License Agreement, Pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that Pfizer licenses to us. In the animal health field, Pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, Pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. If Pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business.\nTo preserve the tax-free treatment to Pfizer and/or its stockholders of the Exchange Offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions.\nOn May 22, 2013, Pfizer announced an exchange offer (the Exchange Offer) whereby Pfizer shareholders could exchange a portion of Pfizer common stock for Zoetis common stock. The Exchange Offer was completed on June 24, 2013, resulting in the full separation of Zoetis and the disposal of Pfizer's entire ownership and voting interest in Zoetis. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Pfizer and/or its stockholders of the Exchange Offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% Senior Notes due 2023.\nIf there is a later determination that the Exchange Offer or certain related transactions are taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the IRS private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities.\nPfizer has received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Exchange Offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code). Completion by Pfizer of the Exchange Offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of Pfizer's private letter ruling from the IRS and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the Exchange Offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The ruling and\n33 |\nthe opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the Exchange Offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Pfizer or us after the Exchange Offer. If the Exchange Offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement.\nRisks related to our common stock\nThe price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in Zoetis common stock as a result.\nThere may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. From our IPO through December 31, 2020, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE has ranged from a low sales price of $28.14 on April 15, 2014 to a high sales price of $176.64 on November 5, 2020. Some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2020 Annual Report, are:\n\u2022our operating performance and the performance of our competitors;\n\u2022our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments;\n\u2022changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock;\n\u2022changes in our investor base;\n\u2022failures to meet external expectations or management guidance;\n\u2022fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;\n\u2022changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, future issuances or repurchases of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt;\n\u2022reputational issues;\n\u2022changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business;\n\u2022the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic;\n\u2022the arrival or departure of key personnel;\n\u2022the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds);\n\u2022changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and\n\u2022other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors.\nIn addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management.\nWhile we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time.\nOn December 9, 2020, our Board of Directors declared the 2021 first quarter dividend of $0.25 per share to be paid on March 1, 2021, to holders of record on January 20, 2021; and on February 10, 2021, our Board of Directors declared the 2021 second quarter dividend of $0.25 per share to be paid on June 1, 2021, to holders of record on April 21, 2021. Although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. Returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the U.S., impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.\nProvisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.\nOur amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as \u201cour certificate of incorporation,\u201d and our amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as \u201cour by-laws,\u201d contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include:\n\u2022a Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;\n\u2022rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;\n34 |\n\u2022the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;\n\u2022limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors;\n\u2022limitations on the right of stockholders to act by written consent; and\n\u2022limitations on the right of stockholders to call for special meetings.\nIn addition, Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests.\n35 |